feat(docs): update to docs from sphinx to starlight (#659)
algorandfoundation/puya: docs/src/content/docs/reference/architecture-decisions/2024-05-22_teal-compilation.md

---
title: Compilation of Algorand TEAL Programs into AVM Bytecode
description: Architecture decision record for how Puya compiles TEAL to AVM bytecode
---

- **Status**: Proposed
- **Owner**: Daniel McGregor (MakerX)
- **Deciders**: Rob Moore (MakerX), Adam Chidlow (MakerX), Alessandro Cappellato (Algorand Foundation)
- **Date created**: 2024-05-22
- **Date decided**:
- **Date updated**:

## Context

The Puya compiler needs to assemble valid Algorand TEAL (Transaction Execution Approval Language) programs into AVM (Algorand Virtual Machine) bytecode
so the bytecode can be used within inner transactions that need to create applications. Additionally, the ability to produce compiled bytecode without

> an algod node is also desriable for other use cases, e.g. producing an [ARC-56 app description](https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/pull/258).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an algod node is also desriable for other use cases, e.g. producing an [ARC-56 app description](https://dev.algorand.co/arc-standards/arc-0056/).
```
